---
title: Using RevScripter to Build an Analysis Script
subtitle: Estimating an unrooted phylogeny under standard substitution models
level: 2
order: 1
index: false
redirect: false
---



{% section Overview %}

This tutorial will guide you through creating a RevBayes script using 
[RevScripter](https://revbayes.github.io/revscripter/).
RevScripter is a web-based graphical tool intended to introduce 
new users to the Rev language and standard analysis methods in RevBayes. 


{% section RevScripter: An Introductory Tool for Creating RevBayes Analysis Scripts %}

RevBayes is extremely flexible and the Rev language and graphical model 
framework enable researchers to apply a very rich set of complex 
evolutionary models. The development of RevScripter was motivated by a 
need to provide a familiar introductory interface for RevBayes and the Rev 
language. It will not be possible to maintain a menu-driven graphical user 
interface (GUI) that encompasses the wide range of models and methods available in 
RevBayes. Thus, this tool will be useful for those new to RevBayes to set up 
standard analyses and easily see how elements of the model are reflected 
in the generated Rev language script.

{% subsection Design and Source Code %}

The design of RevScripter is inspired by the BEAUti tool in the 
BEAST packages {% cite Drummond2012 Bouckaert2014 %}, as well as the 
[graphical user interface for the program BPP](http://www.rannala.org/software/) 
{% cite Flouri2018 %}. All of these tools are menu-based user interfaces
for creating complex analysis scripts for Bayesian phylogenetic inference
programs. These interfaces are dynamic and the available options react to the
choices made by the user. In many ways, these menu-driven GUIs are also modeled 
off of PAUP* {% cite Swofford2001 %}, the phylogenetic analysis program that 
is one of the most commonly used tools in the field. 
Thus, creating a GUI that uses menus and options for the user to choose 
is a familiar approach among statistical phylogenetics software tools 
and this type of interface will hopefully make it easier for those new to
analysis in RevBayes to get started. With the scripts generated by RevScripter,
you will be able to directly link the choices you made in the graphical tool
to the Rev language syntax that builds the model and specifies the execution 
of the analysis.

RevScripter is written in Javascript and uses CSS for the layout and design.
The source code for RevScripter is hosted on GitHub: 
[https://github.com/revbayes/revscripter](https://github.com/revbayes/revscripter). 

{% subsection A Graphical Interface for RevBayes %}

RevScripter is intended to provide a gateway for new users interested in building 
scripts for standard analyses and accessing RevBayes through a familiar
interface. Ultimately, however, the menu-based design of RevScripter will always
be limited to just a subset of the available models and methods that are possible
in RevBayes. Instead, a much more flexible and modular graphical user interface
is needed for a program like RevBayes. John Huselsenbeck and Sveta Krasikova are 
currently developing a GUI that is integrated with the RevBayes core, which will
enable users to access the wide range of possible models and methods available
in RevBayes with a graphical tool. 

{% section Building Your Model and Analysis with RevScripter %}


{% subsection Exercise: Unrooted phylogenetic analysis under the Jukes-Cantor substitution model %}

